Before we start talking about the reactor matter we'll talk about the HCM L5 history object.
So you have a good idea of how it all works underneath the covers.
Our objectives would be to modify the address bar with the history of push state function and to describe
how bookmarking a single page application works.
So the history API is fairly simple.
We've got methods like backward and forward just like any in the browser where you can click back or
forward.
And then history push state which changes the address bar and changes the history the goal the history
object is to allow javascript to manipulate your browser's history.
So to sum it up the history object allows you to change the URL address bar change the browsers local
navigation history but it does not cause the browser to make a new GET request which would cause your
page to reload and then essentially lose the feeling of a single page application.
Let's test this out in the cons.
So I can use history here and I'll say that push date.
The first parameter is a state object.
This is some data that we want to tie to the new change in the history object but we don't care about
any data right now.
And this title isn't really used so I'm just going to put test.
And then finally the route that you want here.
So I'll change this to slash reacts
and now doesn't look like anything has changed the page hasn't refreshed.
But if I do window that location now you can see my location is slide's dot com slash reacts.
And I can change the Ural again if I want so I'll add here.
D-3.
And now if I look at the location again the URL is now D-3.
So for more info about this you can definitely check out the Mozilla docs on the history API it goes
into a little bit more detail about how the API works and shows you a few examples.
So definitely worth reading through.
So that's great but what we'll use this history thing for.
So to create a good single page application we want to have a feel like a normal web site.
We want to have link clicks and the back button working and all the normal things that you expect on
a web page Tappen correctly and to make that a reality we're going to use the history object.
Now we won't directly modify the history object to react router package will do that for us but it's
good to understand what it's doing in order to understand how to build traps.
So here's a diagram of what's going on in the old way of doing web development with server side rendering
where the client doesn't do much and the server is in charge of most of the rendering of the display
so on the left side we've got a client that's basically just HDMI and CSSA nothing smart going on there
on the back and we've got a server.
It could be any server in this case I just said no jazz.
So first I'll send a GET request to get the homepage and I'll get back indexation hemol it's fully rendered.
Now there's nothing special going on on the front end.
So if I click a link to go somewhere I like the sign and page the page that I get back is going to be
another page that's a fully rendered HVM file.
So clicking on the link to go to the sign in page from the home page would cause a GET request to get
sent in a fully re rendered page to happen.
When we say slash seinen
contrasting that with client side rendering.
Now on the client we have re-act running as well.
So H.M.S. SS and then a lot of javascript happening and that changes how the rendering happens.
So first of all the browser makes a request just like before to get the home page and then the server
returns just an index page CML that's very empty.
All it has really is one div inside with an idea of root.
And we've seen this before in our indexation Timo.
It's a very empty XML file with just one div then reacts grabs onto that div and renders its page.
So once re-act loads then the actual page gets rendered there's content there.
Next if I click on a link to go to the sign in page there's no more request of the server.
Instead react handles rendering the sign in page all by itself.
So reactor router will look at the location of the Web site slash seinen and decide which components
to render.
And this is much different from our last model where the server based on the request is giving back
a fully rendered ex-teammate page.
Now the client is doing all the decisions about what to render on what route.
This leads to one more issue that's important to understand.
Another thing you want to be able to do is to bookmark a u r l or share a u r l from your Web site.
So if I bookmark some profile page like Slash user slash 55 when I load that page in my browser by loading
the bookmark I'll make a get request to slash user slash 55 and the no just server is going to return
the exact same index shemale with nothing inside except for the root.
Now that's important.
The index a shemale that gets returned should be the same no matter what valid you are.
All we ask for.
So this is user 55.
Or if it's just slash or if it's slash sign in or sign up whatever the URL is.
The server should always return the same DML and it's going to be just a single Ishmail page with a
div and not much else.
And then on the back side reacts based on this you are l that you ask for renderers the specific component
to match that you are l.
So the key thing for handling this bookmarking problem is that the server must support this.
The server has to return the same HVM file no matter what the route is.
Now if we also have an API that we're working with there is a way to proxy requests for certain routes
but for the most part all the valid routes that we care about are going to return our HTL template.
That's all for this one.
Next up we'll talk about the reactor router.